[Music]
April 22nd snowing that's not cool
that's not cool at all because it's
snowed it's not crazy I don't like the
snow anymore do you I want summer to
come okay go go love you did not think
I'd be having to put this puffed coat
back on the end of April tell you that
much that is a bummer Pete man you
should really clean clean that helmet
off before it started snowing I was
running a few errands
Oh hand is so cold
[Music]
all right yeah my kind of errands anyway
right now I have to take see here the
amount of times I've adjusted a camera
on a on a tripod okay right now I got to
load this quad into the back of that
truck and drop it off at the marina no
contact gloves on leaving it out front
I'll message them that it's there
they're putting like a new exhaust on it
and fixing a few things that I ruined
while riding and also pressure washing
also if there's anyone out there that
rides ATVs or four-wheelers or quads or
bikes curious this is like an argument
that I see online a lot do you call it a
bike you call it a quad no bike bicycle
means like by two cycles two wheels a
bicycle make sense I see a lot of guys
calling these bikes it's easier to say
bike it's faster but it technically
makes zero sense since there's four
wheels
help me out bike quad doesn't matter
[Music]
oh it's so cold outside oh my fingers oh
come on April
hop into April showers is that like is
that just gone now I swear I picked the
coldest day of the year to do this April
22nd of all days almost May and like I
need winter gloves what what all right
we have made it just time to get this
thing out of the back get it inside Oh
guys look at this April 22nd icicles
[Music]
hey I called you a little bit earlier
about dropping my bike off I left it out
front
Peter McKinnon I have an interview with
the chief was it the chief medical
officer of Canada I should know the
title the interview is in the interview
is in 30 minutes
so I have to prep things myself I'm kind
of nervous anyway and then and then
we'll continue to vlog let me just let
me get my let me change take my hat off
probably you know respectful and by this
point I think you'll probably already
have seen it so what did you think I
mean I was trying to just do my part I
feel like you know this is super
Canadian like it doesn't get more
Canadian than this shirt these jeans
this mustache nothing worse than like
golden retriever dog hair all over you
everything everywhere at this point he's
like seven years old maybe eight years
old now that is like it's in the florist
in the walls in my mouth it's in my soul
did you guys know I have a tattoo of him
on my shoulder he's named power my
golden hand look at this okay that's him
[Music]
people are always asking like you know
what are you using your hair what's your
process tap water tap water in my hands
nothing else but I think I'm gonna grow
it back I know
plan right here well I stick to it I
don't know this Canadian enough hey
sorry let's do this I have 30 minutes to
ask as many questions
good questions as I can that'll help
Canadians and young Canadians get
through this pandemic a little bit
easier with some information coming from
someone credible what am i have you've
already seen it you've probably already
seen it on the channel you know what's
going down right now
you know you know before I know so how'd
I do if you've already had
covin 19 you've tested positive for it
coming out of that are you immune to it
to getting it again that is another
great question and the scientific
evidence is not clear yet
[Music]
so that's it for this video guys thank
you so much for watching a very special
thank you to the Public Health
Department of Canada and dr. Howard knew
all of our frontline professionals
medical professionals across all fields
thank you
sincerely I did it I did he was great I
mean he was awesome
a little nervous but it was great he did
all the work I just I had a note I had
notes and Fryman just feel good about
that I'm gonna put a hoodie back on now
[Music]
to open that's always fun
it's been a while since I've done a mail
time and a bunch of packages arrived at
the studio and I'm super excited to rip
into them so let's do that now let's go
let's start with let's start with this
some of these are things I've ordered by
the way I think one of these I ordered
it might be this one actually do you
ever look at a box and just not
understand how it works cut cardboard
itself see this box right here my wife
got this for me I think half of this is
her stuff if you're always looking at
your computer at night and you need a
pair of blue light glasses I was like
what the hell are blue light glasses for
all the garbage that comes off your
computer screen when you're working
apparently it's not good for you
so now I have some blue light glasses
you look kind of funny that's number one
I forgot there's still stuff inside
why is this still a thing oh yeah let's
go this is beautiful thank you for
sending this what I don't even want to
open I just want to put this on like
this a shelf somewhere Wow
some new playing cards cuz I don't have
any laughs pretty much run out of them
this is the same guy that makes those
Star Wars cards he knows what he's doing
thank you next up oh let's go let's go
yes nothing like opening a package with
a knife to get more knives inside the
new CF Elite bug-out so psyched on this
everyone always asks Pete what's a good
first pocket knife that's the one right
there
Google that right there that's what you
get for the fancy people
okay well I'm nerding out big time right
now this this might be the best part of
my day oh it feels good it feels good
Benchmade you know someone carries a
pocket knife when this part of their
pocket is destroyed benchmate thank you
guys if you're looking for a pocket
knife benchmade you want a quick
backstory let me give you a quick that
hang on let's make this less creepy and
make a little more sense okay let's go
back to 2008 young Peter gets a job at
Henry's okay I'm working at the camera
shop I'm working in the back every
morning deliveries would come through
that back door like we're talking 3540
big plastic bins with these big hard
plastic tabs on them that needed to be
cut off so I'd be like using scissors or
I'd be using driving me crazy using
scissors or I'd be using a Leatherman or
some kind of like cable cutter until my
boss Nathan at the time came by and said
here dude BAM use my knife I was the
Spyderco delicas what he was using at
the time I still remember and I think he
still has it he sent me a picture of it
like three weeks ago my mind wasn't
blown
because he's had that in his pocket now
for like 12 years so young Peter takes
the Spyderco delica and starts slashing
all these bins open I was like this is
great the next day I don't have anything
open these bins Nathan's like here use
my knife third day fourth day second
week third week a month in Nathan's like
dude just buy your own pocket knife stop
taking punches I'm the cowboy your knife
gotta borrow your knife can I borrow
your knife anything cowboy Nathan hey
Nathan Nathan can I borrow your knife
over and over and over I finally went
out by my own Spyderco knife now a few
friends were like dude that's weird that
you carry a knife in your pocket like
why do you need that oh my god I use it
at work I cut open all the deliveries
like every single morning then it turned
into also using it to retrieve something
that fell down the side of my seat then
I'd cut a thread off my t-shirt or I'd
open some mail open an Amazon box
something would get stuck I'd stick the
knife blade in just a little bit wedge
it out I'd use the tip to pull a
splinter out of my finger clean my nails
use the back of it to undo a tripod
screw to undo the light switch screw
next thing you know I'm using a
pocketknife for little tasks around my
life every every single day okay listen
to this every single day so it's not
that I'm just a weirdo and I like I like
no I like sharp knife I love the touch
of Steel
it's just handy it's a handy tool to
have in your pocket at all times I've
been carrying a knife in my pocket since
2008 now as well
when benchmade sends you knives you get
site where my glass
oh what's that what are you doing right
now Peter using your knife to cut
something else off your glasses oh
that's handy yeah it is good thing I had
it with me okay
next up what do we got all right open
the letter with my night open why can't
I figure out boxes Oh summer
[Music]
clean this up and then I'll I'll be back
in a minute
[Music]
much better well we'll speak clean there
that's the fast way of getting the
garbage downstairs for whatever reason I
cannot keep this area clean when I want
to shoot this way I always just move all
the garbage to this side and then and
then it just ends up piling up and then
[Music]
you got one for recycling and one for
garbage
[Music]
guys it's been a good day thanks for
watching I'll see in the next video
[Music]
[Music]